============================================================================= 
Third Party Licenses
============================================================================= 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for Boost Software, which is included in this 
package.

--License Start--
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization 
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by 
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, 
and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, 
and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all 
subject to the following: 

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the 
above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be 
included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all 
derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are 
solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by a source 
language processor. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL 
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS 
IN THE SOFTWARE. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for cURL, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE 

Copyright (c) 1996 - 2015, Daniel Stenberg, daniel@haxx.se. 

All rights reserved. 

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose 
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright 
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN 
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, 
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR 
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE 
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not 
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings 
in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for Cyrus SASL, which is included in this 
package.

--License Start--
Copyright (c) 1994-2012 Carnegie Mellon University. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

	1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
	   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
	   
	2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
	   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
	   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
	   
	3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to endorse or 
	   promote products derived from this software without prior written 
	   permission. For permission or any other legal details, please contact
			Office of Technology Transfer
			Carnegie Mellon University
			5000 Forbes Avenue
			Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
			(412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
			tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
			
	4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following 
	   acknowledgment: 
	   "This product includes software developed by Computing Services at 
	   Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."

CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS 
SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN 
NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, 
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER 
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for dtoa, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
The author of this software is David M. Gay.

Copyright (c) 1991, 2000, 2001 by Lucent Technologies.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose 
without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice is included in 
all copies of any software which is or includes a copy or modification of this 
software and in all copies of the supporting documentation for such software.

THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTY. IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR LUCENT
MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE
MERCHANTABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for Expat, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy 
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal 
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights 
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell 
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is 
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: 

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all 
copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NOINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for ICU 1.8.1 and later, which is included in 
this package.

--License Start--
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright (c) 1995-2014 International Business Machines Corporation and others

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy 
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal 
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights 
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the 
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear 
in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and 
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN 
NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY 
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN 
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN 
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not 
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings 
in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. 
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of 
their respective owners. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for MIT Kerberos, which is included in this 
package.

--License Start--
MIT Kerberos License

Copyright © 1985-2015 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

	* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
	  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

	* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
	  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
	  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Downloading of this software may constitute an export of cryptographic 
software from the United States of America that is subject to the United 
States Export Administration Regulations (EAR), 15 CFR 730-774. Additional 
laws or regulations may apply. It is the responsibility of the person or 
entity contemplating export to comply with all applicable export laws and 
regulations, including obtaining any required license from the U.S. 
government. 

The U.S. government prohibits export of encryption source code to certain 
countries and individuals, including, but not limited to, the countries of 
Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, and residents and nationals of those 
countries. 

Documentation components of this software distribution are licensed under a 
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. 
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) 

Individual source code files are copyright MIT, Cygnus Support, Novell, 
OpenVision Technologies, Oracle, Red Hat, Sun Microsystems, FundsXpress, and 
others. 

Project Athena, Athena, Athena MUSE, Discuss, Hesiod, Kerberos, Moira, and 
Zephyr are trademarks of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). No 
commercial use of these trademarks may be made without prior written 
permission of MIT. 

"Commercial use" means use of a name in a product or other for-profit manner. 
It does NOT prevent a commercial firm from referring to the MIT trademarks in 
order to convey information (although in doing so, recognition of their 
trademark status should be given). 

The following copyright and permission notice applies to the OpenVision 
Kerberos Administration system located in kadmin/create, kadmin/dbutil, 
kadmin/passwd, kadmin/server, lib/kadm5, and portions of lib/rpc: 

	Copyright, OpenVision Technologies, Inc., 1993-1996, All Rights Reserved 

	WARNING: Retrieving the OpenVision Kerberos Administration system source 
	code, as described below, indicates your acceptance of the following 
	terms. If you do not agree to the following terms, do not retrieve the 
	OpenVision Kerberos administration system. 

	You may freely use and distribute the Source Code and Object Code 
	compiled from it, with or without modification, but this Source Code is 
	provided to you AS IS EXCLUSIVE OF ANY WARRANTY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT 
	LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE, OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. IN NO EVENT 
	WILL OPENVISION HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA OR 
	COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, OR FOR ANY SPECIAL, 
	INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, 
	INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THOSE RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THE SOURCE 
	CODE, OR THE FAILURE OF THE SOURCE CODE TO PERFORM, OR FOR ANY OTHER 
	REASON. 

	OpenVision retains all copyrights in the donated Source Code. OpenVision 
	also retains copyright to derivative works of the Source Code, whether 
	created by OpenVision or by a third party. The OpenVision copyright 
	notice must be preserved if derivative works are made based on the 
	donated Source Code. 

	OpenVision Technologies, Inc. has donated this Kerberos Administration 
	system to MIT for inclusion in the standard Kerberos 5 distribution. This 
	donation underscores our commitment to continuing Kerberos technology 
	development and our gratitude for the valuable work which has been 
	performed by MIT and the Kerberos community. 

	Portions contributed by Matt Crawford crawdad@fnal.gov were work 
	performed at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, which is operated by 
	Universities Research Association, Inc., under contract DE-AC02-76CHO3000 
	with the U.S. Department of Energy. 

Portions of src/lib/crypto have the following copyright: 

	Copyright © 1998 by the FundsXpress, INC. 

	All rights reserved. 

	Export of this software from the United States of America may require a 
	specific license from the United States Government. It is the 
	responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to 
	obtain such a license before exporting. WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, 
	permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its 
	documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided 
	that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that 
	copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting 
	documentation, and that the name of FundsXpress. not be used in 
	advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software 
	without specific, written prior permission. FundsXpress makes no 
	representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. 
	It is provided as is without express or implied warranty. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

The implementation of the AES encryption algorithm in 
src/lib/crypto/builtin/aes has the following copyright: 

	Copyright © 2001, Dr Brian Gladman brg@gladman.uk.net, Worcester, UK. All 
	rights reserved. 

	LICENSE TERMS 

	The free distribution and use of this software in both source and binary 
	form is allowed (with or without changes) provided that: 

	1. distributions of this source code include the above copyright notice, 
	   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer; 
	2. distributions in binary form include the above copyright notice, this 
	   list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
	   and/or other associated materials; 
	3. the copyright holders name is not used to endorse products built using 
	   this software without specific written permission. 

	DISCLAIMER 

	This software is provided as is with no explcit or implied warranties 
	in respect of any properties, including, but not limited to, correctness 
	and fitness for purpose. 

Portions contributed by Red Hat, including the pre-authentication plug-in 
framework and the NSS crypto implementation, contain the following copyright: 

	Copyright © 2006 Red Hat, Inc. 
	Portions copyright © 2006 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
	All Rights Reserved. 
	
	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
		  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
		* Neither the name of Red Hat, Inc., nor the names of its contributors 
		  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
		  software without specific prior written permission. 
	
	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND 
	CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, 
	BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
	FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT 
	OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
	SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
	TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The bundled verto source code is subject to the following license: 

	 Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc. 

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 
	Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including 
	without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
	distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit 
	persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the 
	following conditions: 

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
	OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN 
	NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, 
	DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR 
	OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE 
	USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

The MS-KKDCP client implementation has the following copyright: 

	Copyright 2013,2014 Red Hat, Inc. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS 
	IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The implementations of GSSAPI mechglue in GSSAPI-SPNEGO in src/lib/gssapi, 
including the following files: 

	lib/gssapi/generic/gssapi_err_generic.et 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_accept_sec_context.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_acquire_cred.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_canon_name.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_compare_name.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_context_time.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_delete_sec_context.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_dsp_name.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_dsp_status.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_dup_name.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_exp_sec_context.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_export_name.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_glue.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_imp_name.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_imp_sec_context.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_init_sec_context.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_initialize.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_inquire_context.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_inquire_cred.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_inquire_names.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_process_context.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_rel_buffer.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_rel_cred.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_rel_name.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_rel_oid_set.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_seal.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_sign.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_store_cred.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_unseal.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_userok.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_utils.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/g_verify.c lib/gssapi/mechglue/gssd_pname_to_uid.c 
	lib/gssapi/mechglue/mglueP.h lib/gssapi/mechglue/oid_ops.c 
	lib/gssapi/spnego/gssapiP_spnego.h lib/gssapi/spnego/spnego_mech.c 

and the initial implementation of incremental propagation, including the 
following new or changed files: 

	include/iprop_hdr.h kadmin/server/ipropd_svc.c lib/kdb/iprop.x 
	lib/kdb/kdb_convert.c lib/kdb/kdb_log.c lib/kdb/kdb_log.h 
	lib/krb5/error_tables/kdb5_err.et slave/kpropd_rpc.c slave/kproplog.c 

are subject to the following license: 

	Copyright © 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. 

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 
	Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including 
	without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
	distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit 
	persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the 
	following conditions: 

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
	OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN 
	NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, 
	DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR 
	OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE 
	USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

Kerberos V5 includes documentation and software developed at the University of 
California at Berkeley, which includes this copyright notice: 

	Copyright © 1983 Regents of the University of California. 
	All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY 
	EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
	DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR 
	ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
	DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
	OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
	HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
	STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
	ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
	POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Portions contributed by Novell, Inc., including the LDAP database backend, are 
subject to the following license: 

	Copyright © 2004-2005, Novell, Inc. 

	All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

		* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
		  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 

		* The copyright holders name is not used to endorse or promote 
		  products derived from this software without specific prior written 
		  permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS 
	IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Portions funded by Sandia National Laboratory and developed by the University 
of Michigans Center for Information Technology Integration, including the 
PKINIT implementation, are subject to the following license: 

	COPYRIGHT © 2006-2007 
	THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
	ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

	Permission is granted to use, copy, create derivative works and 
	redistribute this software and such derivative works for any purpose, so 
	long as the name of The University of Michigan is not used in any 
	advertising or publicity pertaining to the use of distribution of this 
	software without specific, written prior authorization. If the above 
	copyright notice or any other identification of the University of 
	Michigan is included in any copy of any portion of this software, then 
	the disclaimer below must also be included. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT REPRESENTATION FROM THE 
	UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS TO ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE, AND WITHOUT 
	WARRANTY BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR 
	IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE REGENTS OF THE 
	UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING 
	SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WITH RESPECT TO 
	ANY CLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE, 
	EVEN IF IT HAS BEEN OR IS HEREAFTER ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
	DAMAGES. 

The pkcs11.h file included in the PKINIT code has the following license: 

	Copyright 2006 g10 Code GmbH 
	Copyright 2006 Andreas Jellinghaus 

	This file is free software; as a special exception the author gives 
	unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it, with or without 
	modifications, as long as this notice is preserved. 

	This file is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
	ANY WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law; without even the implied 
	warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

Portions contributed by Apple Inc. are subject to the following license: 

	Copyright 2004-2008 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

		Export of this software from the United States of America may 
		require a specific license from the United States Government. It is 
		the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating 
		export to obtain such a license before exporting. 

	WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute 
	this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is 
	hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all 
	copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice 
	appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Apple Inc. not 
	be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the 
	software without specific, written prior permission. Apple Inc. makes no 
	representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. 
	It is provided as is without express or implied warranty. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

The implementations of UTF-8 string handling in src/util/support and 
src/lib/krb5/unicode are subject to the following copyright and permission 
notice: 

	The OpenLDAP Public License 
	Version 2.8, 17 August 2003 

	Redistribution and use of this software and associated documentation 
	(Software), with or without modification, are permitted provided that 
	the following conditions are met: 

		1. Redistributions in source form must retain copyright statements 
		   and notices, 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce applicable copyright 
		   statements and notices, this list of conditions, and the following 
		   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided 
		   with the distribution, and 
		3. Redistributions must contain a verbatim copy of this document. 

	The OpenLDAP Foundation may revise this license from time to time. Each 
	revision is distinguished by a version number. You may use this Software 
	under terms of this license revision or under the terms of any subsequent 
	revision of the license. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OPENLDAP FOUNDATION AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS 
	AS IS AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
	LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
	PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPENLDAP 
	FOUNDATION, ITS CONTRIBUTORS, OR THE AUTHOR(S) OR OWNER(S) OF THE 
	SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	The names of the authors and copyright holders must not be used in 
	advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealing in 
	this Software without specific, written prior permission. Title to 
	copyright in this Software shall at all times remain with copyright 
	holders. 

	OpenLDAP is a registered trademark of the OpenLDAP Foundation. 

	Copyright 1999-2003 The OpenLDAP Foundation, Redwood City, California, 
	USA. All Rights Reserved. Permission to copy and distribute verbatim 
	copies of this document is granted. 

Marked test programs in src/lib/krb5/krb have the following copyright: 

	Copyright © 2006 Kungliga Tekniska Högskola 
	(Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden). 
	All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of KTH nor the names of its contributors may be 
		   used to endorse or promote products derived from this software 
		   without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY KTH AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY 
	EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
	DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL KTH OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
	DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
	DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
	OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
	HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
	STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
	ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
	POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The KCM Mach RPC definition file used on OS X has the following copyright: 

	Copyright © 2009 Kungliga Tekniska Högskola 
	(Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden). 
	All rights reserved. 

	Portions Copyright © 2009 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors 
		   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
		   software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY 
	EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
	DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR 
	ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
	DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
	SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
	CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
	LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
	OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
	DAMAGE. 

Portions of the RPC implementation in src/lib/rpc and src/include/gssrpc have 
the following copyright and permission notice: 

	Copyright © 2010, Oracle America, Inc. 

	All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of the Oracle America, Inc. nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS 
	IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	Copyright © 2006,2007,2009 NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone 
	Corporation). All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer as the 
		   first lines of this file unmodified. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
		   documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NTT AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN 
	NO EVENT SHALL NTT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
	SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
	TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	Copyright 2000 by Carnegie Mellon University 

	All Rights Reserved 

	Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its 
	documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided 
	that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that 
	copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting 
	documentation, and that the name of Carnegie Mellon University not be 
	used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the 
	software without specific, written prior permission. 

	CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS 
	SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND 
	FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
	SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER 
	RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF 
	CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN 
	CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 

	Copyright © 2002 Naval Research Laboratory (NRL/CCS) 

	Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
	documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright notice 
	and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software, 
	derivative works or modified versions, and any portions thereof. 

	NRL ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS AS IS CONDITION AND 
	DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING 
	FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 

Portions extracted from Internet RFCs have the following copyright notice: 

	Copyright © The Internet Society (2006). 

	This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions 
	contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors retain 
	all their rights. 

	This document and the information contained herein are provided on an AS 
	IS basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS OR IS 
	SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING 
	TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT 
	LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT 
	INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
	FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

	Copyright © 1991, 1992, 1994 by Cygnus Support. 

	Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its 
	documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided 
	that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that 
	copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting 
	documentation. Cygnus Support makes no representations about the 
	suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided as is 
	without express or implied warranty. 

	Copyright © 2006 Secure Endpoints Inc. 

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 
	Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including 
	without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
	distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit 
	persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the 
	following conditions: 

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
	OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN 
	NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, 
	DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR 
	OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE 
	USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

Portions of the implementation of the Fortuna-like PRNG are subject to the 
following notice: 

	Copyright © 2005 Marko Kreen 
	All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
		   documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY 
	EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
	DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR 
	ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
	DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
	OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
	HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
	STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
	ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
	POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	Copyright © 1994 by the University of Southern California 

		EXPORT OF THIS SOFTWARE from the United States of America may require 
		a specific license from the United States Government. It is the 
		responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to 
		obtain such a license before exporting. 
	
	WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to copy, modify, and distribute this 
	software and its documentation in source and binary forms is hereby 
	granted, provided that any documentation or other materials related to 
	such distribution or use acknowledge that the software was developed by 
	the University of Southern California. 

	DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS. The University 
	of Southern California MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR 
	IMPLIED. By way of example, but not limitation, the University of 
	Southern California MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. The University of 
	Southern California shall not be held liable for any liability nor for 
	any direct, indirect, or consequential damages with respect to any claim 
	by the user or distributor of the ksu software. 

	Copyright © 1995 

	The President and Fellows of Harvard University 

	This code is derived from software contributed to Harvard by Jeremy 
	Rassen. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this 
		   software must display the following acknowledgement: 
			   This product includes software developed by the University of 
			   California, Berkeley and its contributors. 
		4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY 
	EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
	DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR 
	ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
	DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
	OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
	HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
	STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
	ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
	POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	Copyright © 2008 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
	Copyright 1995 by Richard P. Basch. All Rights Reserved. 
	Copyright 1995 by Lehman Brothers, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

		Export of this software from the United States of America may 
		require a specific license from the United States Government. It is 
		the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating 
		export to obtain such a license before exporting. 

	WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute 
	this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is 
	hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all 
	copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice 
	appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Richard P. 
	Basch, Lehman Brothers and M.I.T. not be used in advertising or publicity 
	pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written 
	prior permission. Richard P. Basch, Lehman Brothers and M.I.T. make no 
	representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. 
	It is provided as is without express or implied warranty. 

The following notice applies to src/lib/krb5/krb/strptime.c and 
src/include/k5-queue.h. 

	Copyright © 1997, 1998 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved. 
	This code was contributed to The NetBSD Foundation by Klaus Klein. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this 
		   software must display the following acknowledgement: 
			   This product includes software developed by the NetBSD 
			   Foundation, Inc. and its contributors. 
		4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS 
	AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
	TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
	PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The following notice applies to Unicode library files in src/lib/krb5/unicode: 

	Copyright 1997, 1998, 1999 Computing Research Labs, 
	New Mexico State University 

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 
	Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including 
	without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
	distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit 
	persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the 
	following conditions: 

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
	OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN 
	NO EVENT SHALL THE COMPUTING RESEARCH LAB OR NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY 
	BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION 
	OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION 
	WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

The following notice applies to src/util/support/strlcpy.c: 

	Copyright © 1998 Todd C. Miller Todd.Miller@courtesan.com 

	Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any 
	purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above 
	copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES 
	WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
	MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR 
	ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES 
	WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN 
	ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF 
	OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 

The following notice applies to src/util/profile/argv_parse.c and 
src/util/profile/argv_parse.h: 

	Copyright 1999 by Theodore Tso. 

	Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any 
	purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above 
	copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies. THE 
	SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND THEODORE TSO (THE AUTHOR) DISCLAIMS ALL 
	WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
	OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE 
	FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY 
	DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER 
	IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING 
	OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
	(Isnt it sick that the U.S. culture of lawsuit-happy lawyers requires 
	this kind of disclaimer?) 

The following notice applies to SWIG-generated code in 
src/util/profile/profile_tcl.c: 

	Copyright © 1999-2000, The University of Chicago 

	This file may be freely redistributed without license or fee provided 
	this copyright message remains intact. 

The following notice applies to portiions of src/lib/rpc and 
src/include/gssrpc: 

	Copyright © 2000 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights 
	reserved. 
	
	Copyright © 2000 Dug Song dugsong@UMICH.EDU. All rights reserved, all 
	wrongs reversed. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, 
	INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY 
	AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL 
	THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
	INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT 
	NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, 
	DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY 
	THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT 
	(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF 
	THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Implementations of the MD4 algorithm are subject to the following notice: 

	Copyright © 1990, RSA Data Security, Inc. All rights reserved. 

	License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is 
	identified as the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD4 Message Digest Algorithm 
	in all material mentioning or referencing this software or this function. 

	License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that 
	such works are identified as derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. 
	MD4 Message Digest Algorithm in all material mentioning or referencing 
	the derived work. 

	RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the 
	merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for 
	any particular purpose. It is provided as is without express or implied 
	warranty of any kind. 

	These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this 
	documentation and/or software. 

Implementations of the MD5 algorithm are subject to the following notice: 

	Copyright © 1990, RSA Data Security, Inc. All rights reserved. 

	License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is 
	identified as the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message- Digest Algorithm 
	in all material mentioning or referencing this software or this function. 

	License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that 
	such works are identified as derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. 
	MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm in all material mentioning or referencing 
	the derived work. 

	RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the 
	merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for 
	any particular purpose. It is provided as is without express or implied 
	warranty of any kind. 

	These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this 
	documentation and/or software. 

The following notice applies to src/lib/crypto/crypto_tests/t_mddriver.c: 

	Copyright © 1990-2, RSA Data Security, Inc. Created 1990. All rights 
	reserved. 

	RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the 
	merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for 
	any particular purpose. It is provided as is without express or implied 
	warranty of any kind. 

	These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this 
	documentation and/or software. 

Portions of src/lib/krb5 are subject to the following notice: 

	Copyright © 1994 CyberSAFE Corporation. 

	Copyright 1990,1991,2007,2008 by the Massachusetts Institute of 
	Technology. All Rights Reserved. 

		Export of this software from the United States of America may 
		require a specific license from the United States Government. It is 
		the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating 
		export to obtain such a license before exporting. 

	WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute 
	this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is 
	hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all 
	copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice 
	appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be 
	used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the 
	software without specific, written prior permission. Furthermore if you 
	modify this software you must label your software as modified software 
	and not distribute it in such a fashion that it might be confused with 
	the original M.I.T. software. Neither M.I.T., the Open Computing Security 
	Group, nor CyberSAFE Corporation make any representations about the 
	suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided as is 
	without express or implied warranty. 

Portions contributed by PADL Software are subject to the following license: 

	Copyright (c) 2011, PADL Software Pty Ltd. All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		   distribution. 
		3. Neither the name of PADL Software nor the names of its 
		   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		   from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY PADL SOFTWARE AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND 
	ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
	IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL PADL SOFTWARE OR CONTRIBUTORS 
	BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
	CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
	SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
	INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
	CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
	ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF 
	THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The bundled libev source code is subject to the following license: 

	All files in libev are Copyright (C)2007,2008,2009 Marc Alexander 
	Lehmann. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		  the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		  distribution. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS 
	IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

	Alternatively, the contents of this package may be used under the terms 
	of the GNU General Public License (GPL) version 2 or any later version, 
	in which case the provisions of the GPL are applicable instead of the 
	above. If you wish to allow the use of your version of this package only 
	under the terms of the GPL and not to allow others to use your version of 
	this file under the BSD license, indicate your decision by deleting the 
	provisions above and replace them with the notice and other provisions 
	required by the GPL in this and the other files of this package. If you 
	do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of 
	this file under either the BSD or the GPL. 

Files copied from the Intel AESNI Sample Library are subject to the following 
license: 

	Copyright © 2010, Intel Corporation All rights reserved. 

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met: 

		* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
		* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in 
		  the documentation and/or other materials provided with the 
		  distribution. 
		* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its 
		  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
		  from this software without specific prior written permission. 

	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS 
	IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR 
	CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
	EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
	PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
	PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
	NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
	SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for OpenSSL, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
Copyright (c) 1998-2016 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

	1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
	   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

	2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
	   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
	   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

	3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software 
	   must display the following acknowledgment:

		"This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for 
		use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"

	4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to 
	   endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior 
	   written permission. For written permission, please contact 
	   openssl-core@openssl.org.

	5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
	   "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the 
	   OpenSSL Project.

	6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following 
	   acknowledgment:

	   "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for 
	   use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESSED OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO 
EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, 
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, 
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY 
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, 
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric 
Young(eay@cryptsoft.com). This product includes software written by Tim Hudson 
(tjh@cryptsoft.com). 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for Original SSLeay, which is included in this 
package.

--License Start--
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)

All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young 
(eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with 
Netscapes SSL. 

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the 
following conditions are aheared to. The following conditions apply to all 
code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; 
not just the SSL code. The SSL documentation included with this distribution 
is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson 
(tjh@cryptsoft.com). 

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code 
are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should 
be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can 
be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation 
(online or textual) provided with the package. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

	1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this 
	   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

	2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
	   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
	   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

	3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software 
	   must display the following acknowledgement:

	   "This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
	   (eay@cryptsoft.com)"

	   The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the 
	   library being used are not cryptographic related :-).

	4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from
  	   the apps directory (application code) you must include an 
	   acknowledgement:

	   "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson 
	   (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO 
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, 
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or 
derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be 
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public 
Licence.] 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for RapidJSON, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
Tencent is pleased to support the open source community by making RapidJSON
available.

Copyright (C) 2015 THL A29 Limited, a Tencent company, and Milo Yip. All rights
reserved.

If you have downloaded a copy of the RapidJSON binary from Tencent, please 
note that the RapidJSON binary is licensed under the MIT License. 

If you have downloaded a copy of the RapidJSON source code from Tencent, 
please note that RapidJSON source code is licensed under the MIT License, 
except for the third-party components listed below which are subject to 
different license terms. Your integration of RapidJSON into your own projects 
may require compliance with the MIT License, as well as the other licenses 
applicable to the third-party components included within RapidJSON. 

A copy of the MIT License is included in this file.

Other dependencies and licenses:

	Open Source Software Licensed Under the BSD License:

	The msinttypes r29
	Copyright (c) 2006-2013 Alexander Chemeris
	All rights reserved.

	Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
	modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
	met:
		* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
		  
		* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
		  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
		  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
		  
		* Neither the name of copyright holder nor the names of its 
		  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from 
		  this software without specific prior written permission.

	 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND 
	 ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
	 IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	 PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS BE 
	 LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
	 CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
	 SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
	 INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
	 CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
	 ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF 
	 THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Open Source Software Licensed Under the JSON License:

	json.org
	Copyright (c) 2002 JSON.org
	All Rights Reserved.

	JSON_checker
	Copyright (c) 2002 JSON.org
	All Rights Reserved.

Terms of the JSON License:

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
	to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
	the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
	and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
	Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

	The Software shall be used for Good, not Evil.

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
	IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
	FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL 
	THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
	FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER 
	DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

Terms of the MIT License:

	Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
	copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
	to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
	the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
	and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
	Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: 

	The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
	in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

	THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
	IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
	FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL 
	THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
	LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
	FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER 
	DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for Stringencoders, which is included in this 
package.

--License Start--
Copyright 2005, 2006, 2007

Nick Galbreath -- nickg [at] modp [dot] com

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

	Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
	this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

	Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
	this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
	and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 

	Neither the name of the modp.com nor the names of its contributors may be 
	used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without 
	specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

This is the standard "new" BSD license:

http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is the license for zlib, which is included in this package.

--License Start--
Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use 
of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, 
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, 
subject to the following restrictions:

	1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not 
	   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in 
	   a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be 
	   appreciated but is not required.
	   
	2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
	   misrepresented as being the original software.
	   
	3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly 		Mark Adler
jloup@gzip.org 			madler@alumni.caltech.edu
--License End--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following notice is included in compliance with the Apache License, 
Version 2.0 and is applicable to all software licensed under the Apache 
License, Version 2.0.

--License Start--
Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

	1. Definitions.

	  "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, 
	  and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document. 
	  
	  "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the 
	  copyright owner that is granting the License. 
	  
	  "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other 
	  entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control 
	  with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means 
	  (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management 
	  of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of 
	  fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) 
	  beneficial ownership of such entity. 
	  
	  "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising 
	  permissions granted by this License. 
	  
	  "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, 
	  including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, 
	  and configuration files. 
	  
	  "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical 
	  transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not 
	  limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and 
	  conversions to other media types. 
	  
	  "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object 
	  form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright 
	  notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is 
	  provided in the Appendix below). 
	  
	  "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object 
	  form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the 
	  editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications 
	  represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes 
	  of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain 
	  separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, 
	  the Work and Derivative Works thereof. 
	  
	  "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original 
	  version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or 
	  Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor 
	  for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or 
	  Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For 
	  the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of 
	  electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or 
	  its representatives, including but not limited to communication on 
	  electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue 
	  tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for 
	  the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding 
	  communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in 
	  writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution." 
	  
	  "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on 
	  behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and 
	  subsequently incorporated within the Work. 

	2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
	   License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
	   non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license 
	   to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly 
	   perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works 
	   in Source or Object form. 

	 3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
	    License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
		non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated 
		in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, 
		sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license 
		applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor 
		that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by 
		combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such 
		Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation 
		against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a 
		lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within 
		the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then 
		any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work 
		shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. 

	4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
	   Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, 
	   and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following 
	   conditions: 

		(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative 
		    Works a copy of this License; and 

		(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices 
		     stating that You changed the files; and 

		(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that 
		    You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and 
		    attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding 
		    those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative 
		    Works; and 

		(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its 
		    distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must 
		    include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained 
		    within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not 
		    pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of 
		    the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as 
		    part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or 
		    documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, 
		    within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and 
		    wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents 
		    of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not 
		    modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices 
		    within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an 
		    addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such 
		    additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying 
		    the License. 

	   You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and 
	   may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for 
	   use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any 
	   such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, 
	   and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions 
	   stated in this License. 

	5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, 
	   any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work 
	   by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of 
	   this License, without any additional terms or conditions. 
	   Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify 
	   the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed 
	   with Licensor regarding such Contributions. 

	6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade 
	   names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, 
	   except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the 
	   origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file. 

	7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to 
	   in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor 
	   provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES 
	   OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, 
	   without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, 
	   NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
	   PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the 
	   appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any 
	   risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this 
	   License. 

	8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, 
	   whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, 
	   unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly 
	   negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be 
	   liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, 
	   incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a 
	   result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work 
	   (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work 
	   stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other 
	   commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been 
	   advised of the possibility of such damages. 

	9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the 
	   Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and 
	   charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or 
	   other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this 
	   License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on 
	   Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any 
	   other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and 
	   hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or 
	   claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting 
	   any such warranty or additional liability. 
	   
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

	To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate 
	notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own 
	identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be 
	enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also 
	recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included 
	on the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier 
	identification within third-party archives. 

	Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner] 

	Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may 
	not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a 
	copy of the License at 

	http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 

	Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software 
	distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT 
	WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the 
	License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations 
	under the License. 
--License End--

This product includes software that is licensed under the Apache License, 
Version 2.0 (listed below).

--License Start--

Apache Hive
Copyright © 2008-2015 The Apache Software Foundation

Apache Spark
Copyright © 2014 The Apache Software Foundation

Apache Thrift
Copyright © 2006-2010 The Apache Software Foundation
	  
Apache ZooKeeper
Copyright © 2010 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may 
not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a 
copy of the License at 

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software 
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the 
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations 
under the License. 
--License End--

--License Start--

Apache Arrow
Copyright © 2016-2019 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a
copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Apache Arrow is licensed pursuant to the licenses indicated at
https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/apache-arrow-0.15.1/LICENSE.txt and
https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/apache-arrow-0.15.1/NOTICE.txt
(The "Licenses"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the
Licenses. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.

--License End--
